The best dog to reportedly attract a date is the Golden Retriever. The worst is the Pit Bull.
The Labrador Retriever is the most popular breed, according to the American Kennel Club.
The Labrador Retriever is the most popular breed, according to the American Kennel Club.
Police dogs can smell human bodies even when they are buried up to 3 meters in the ground.
If never spayed or neutered, a female dog, her mate, and their puppies could produce over 66,000 dogs in 6 years!
Dogs see in colors of various shades of blue and yellow.
The breed Lundehune has 6 toes and can close its ears.
The first dog chapel was established in 2001. It was built in St. Johnsbury, Vermont, by Stephan Huneck, a children’s book author whose five dogs helped him recuperate from a serious illness.
Dogs are direct descendants of wolves.
Most experts believe humans domesticated dogs before donkeys, horses, sheep, goats, cattle, cats, or chickens.
The heaviest breed, the Mastiff, weighs about 200 pounds.
During the Middle Ages, Great Danes and Mastiffs were sometimes suited with armor and spiked collars to enter a battle or to defend supply caravans.
Those born under the sign of the dog in Chinese astrology are considered to be loyal and discreet, though slightly temperamental.
Dogs are about as smart as a two- or three-year-old child. This means they can understand about 150-200 words, including signals and hand movements with the same meaning as words.
It costs approximately $10,000 to train a federally certified search and rescue dog.
The ancient Mbaya Indians of the Gran Chaco in South America believed that humans originally lived underground until dogs dug them up.
The best age to bring a puppy home is 8 to 12 weeks.
Why are dogs’ noses so wet? Dogs’ noses secrete a thin layer of mucous that helps them absorb scent. They then lick their noses to sample the scent through their mouth.
In ancient Greece, kennels of dogs were kept at the sanctuary of Asclepius at Epidaurus. Dogs were frequently sacrificed there because they were plentiful, inexpensive, and easy to control. During the July 25 celebration of the kunophontis ("the massacre of dogs"), dog sacrifices were performed to appease the ancestors of Apollo’s son, Linos, who was devoured by dogs..
Dogs don't enjoy being hugged as much as humans and other primates. Canines interpret putting a limb over another animal as a sign of dominance.
In 2003, Dr. Roger Mugford invented the "wagometer," a device that claims to interpret a dog’s exact mood by measuring the wag of its tail.
Dalmatians are completely white at birth.
Some Search and Rescue (SaR) Dogs are trained to sniff out humans 1/4 mile away or more.
Dogs like to chew bones but cooked bones and bones that can splinter such as cooked chicken bones should not be given to dogs.
When Lord Byron was informed that his dog was not allowed to come with him to Cambridge Trinity College, he retaliated by bringing a bear instead.
A Beatles hit. It’s rumored that, at the end of the Beatles song, "A Day in the Life," Paul McCartney recorded an ultrasonic whistle, audible only to dogs, just for his Shetland sheepdog.
Only dogs and humans have prostates.
Dogs who have been spayed or neutered live longer than intact dogs.
Countess Karlotta Libenstein of Germany left approximately $106 million to her Alsatin, Gunther III, when she died in 1992.
In 2002 alone, more people in the U.S. were killed by dogs than by sharks in the past 100 years.
The U.S. has the highest dog population in the world. France has the second highest.
The are 4 constellations named after dogs.
A Russian dog named Laika was the first animal in space, traveling around Earth in 1957.
